SECTION 1
1.
Expand Bash.
Bourne against shell
2.
Explain all types of Shell Expansion.
In a shell shell command is broken down into different bits called tokens which is a sequence of one or more characters 
Now after these tokens are  broken down they must be expanded, there are 8 ways how these tokens are resolved and these are called shell expansions
Brace expantion → this is when a strings are generated using braces and comma  for ex → st{ac,fv,efe,}
Tilda expansion → if the expressiom starts with ~  it is called tild expression 
            ~ followed by any expression until an unqouted / is called tilda prefix
Shell variable and parameter expansion → the dollar symbol followed by braces 
${parameter} 
Command substitution → using ` `  we can replace comand with the output of the command 
Arthematic expression → $((expression ))
          → arthematic expression can be used for arthematic evaluation 
Process substitution → >( LIST) 
Word spiltting → deals with how spacess tab and null are expanded 
File name expansion → same as word spiltting 


3.what is the usage of the man command?
Man command displays the manual of the comnand given after typing man 
For ex ‘man pwd’ will give the manual with all the details about pwd command 

4.Write a command to display the current working directory.
‘Pwd’


5.Write a command to change the directory path to a certain directory.
‘Cd’ is the command used to change the directory path to a certain directory 
For ex → cd  desktop will take us to desktop if we are in the parent directory of desktop


6.Write a command to get into the home directory.
Just “Cd” will take us to the home directory  

7.Write a command to get into the parent directory.
“Cd ..” is a command used to go back one step or to the parent directory of the present file or folder 
→ to go back even further to parents parent directory we have to use “cd ../..” and “cd ../../..” and so on 
 
8.Write a command to go to the previous directory.
Cd ..

9.Define the absolute path.
Absolute path is a complete path of the file whose location is traced entirely from the root directory 
For ex → if we want to go c which is in b which is in a 
The absolute path would be “ cd a/b/c “
10.Define the relative path.
Relative path is relative to the present directory 
For ex → if we are in b and want to go to c 
               “Cd c”
There is / before the directory which we want to go 



11.Write command to make a directory.
Mkdir


12.Write command to remove a directory.
Rmdir


13.Write command to remove the empty directory.
Rmdir or rm 
Rmdir is a command used to delete especially empty directory’s 


14.Write a command to remove all the files and sub-directories present in the directory.
“ rm ” is the command used to remove directorys but for an non-empty directory rm will show an error “cannot remove directory”
For this comman “   rm -r ”  is used which stands for recursive which removes directorys and its sub content recursively 


15.Write the usage of the pushd command.
Pushd command i used to push the current directory into the specified stack 


16.Write the usage of the popd command.
Popd command is used to return back the directory before the current directory


17.Write a command to list all the files in the current directory
Ls


18.Write command to know the type of any given file.
file 


19.Write about the magic file in the Unix file system.
Magic files can be acessed with command file -C -m filename
A magic file identifies the type of data


20.Write the usage of file command for the special files as a parameter.
File -s (special files) → file reads and determines the type of argument 
But file -s reads arguments which are block and character levels



21.Write a command to create the file.
Touch 


22.Write a command to copy the file without a change in timestamps.
Touch -r originalfile newfile 
This commad doesn’t change the timestamp



23.Write a command to modify the access time of a file.
Touch -a

24.list all the options available for the touch command.
Touch -a modify the access time of the file 
Touch -r copy a file without changing the timestamp

25.Write command to remove a file from a directory.
Rm

26.Write about 'rm -i' command.
“Rm -i” command is used when we want to confirm if we want to delete or not , it asks us for Y or N before deleting 


27.Write a command to copy the file.
cp 


28.Define about the recursive copy.
Cp command is used to copy files from one location to another
But it wont work if the directory is not empty 
Cp -r copys all the subsiadary files of the directory also

29.Write about the usage of head command.
Head command can be used to display the first 10 lines of the file

30.Write about the usage of the tail command.
Tail command is used to display the last ten lines of a file 

31.Write a command to view the file content.
Cat  → concatenate displays the content of the file

32.Write the usage of cat command to copy the file.
Cat command can be used to copy content from file to another 
Cat file1 > file2 will copy content from file1 to file2 



33.Write the usage of cat command to create the file
Cat followed by a filename creates a file if the file already doesnt exist 
If it exist it displays the content of the file 




34.Write command to concatenate the file contents.
cat 


35.Write a command to copy files using mv command
Mv --backup


36.Write command to move the files.
Mv → commmand is used to rename or move files between directories 
It requires 2 things the source and destination path
 Mv filename /desktop



37.Write the usage of tac command.
Tac command is similar to cat command but tac displays the information in reverse order the last line is shown first 

38.Write briefly about the chmod command.
Chmod is used to set the permission of the user group or others 
For ex → “chmod u -r “ will remove read permission from the user



39.Write a command to change the mode a file as universal Writable/readable.
 Chmod a = wr


40.Write a command to change the file as executable/Writable/readable.
Chmod a = rwx

41.Write all the file permissions possible.
Read write execute 

42.Write about umask command.
Default values of directories and files is set at 777 and 666 respectively 
Umask command is used to remove permissions from the files 
If we want the directory read  permission only for the user we use umask 077 which will remove all permissions for groups and others



43.Write the usage of 'chown' command.
Chown command is used to change the ownerership
   Chown newowner abc.txt 
Will give newowner the wnership of the file abc.txt

44.Write a command to make the files and directories to have all permissions to you and only readable to others
Chmod u =rwx ,o =r


45.Write a command to print output in stdout and in file.
-Stdin stdout and stderr are types types of data streaming 
Stdin is used my the commandline to take input 
And stdout and stderr is used to display out but stderr is used when there is an error 
Echo is the command used to print output  

46.Write about the grep command.
Grep command is used to search for patterns in a file  
It does what word search does in ms-word 
Grep -i “BBH” would give  all BHH in the file 

47.Write a command to print the top and bottom n lines
Head and tail

48.Write briefly about the' tr' command
Tr which stands for translate it is a command used to modify content from uppercase to lowercase or add or remove spaces 
 cat hhh | tr "[a-z]" "[A-Z] → this command will make the output all uppercase

49.Write a command to print word count in a given file.
Wc -w is the command which prints the number of lines 

50.explain sort command usage to sort the file numeric wise.
Sort -n is used to sort lines of text based on numerical value 


51.Write about the sed command briefly.
Sed is used to text transformation and is used like a text editor 
It is used to find or  replace text etc 



52.sort the file contents using PIPE
Cat hhh | sort 


53.Write command to display the IP address of the host
Ip addr show 

54.Write about IP command.
Ip command is used to configure network interfaces 
It is used to display and modify network interfaces and display and modify ip adresses
                    
 55.create an alias to display your city name.
First we have to set a alias in command line 
alias  currentcity = “hyderabad”
Now currentcity would give hyderabad

56.explain about 'which' command
Which command tells us the pathnames of files or directory’s
Which -a 

57.Write a command to display the exit code of the previous command.

58.execute the pwd command twice using a single command.
Cd file1 ;pwd | cd file2 ;pwd


59.Execute a command to sleep your system for 10 seconds.
Sleep 10 → this command is used to creat a dummy job 


60.Write about the environmental variables.
Environmental variables are a list of variables with names and associated values 
These varibles are available system wide and are inherited by all child processes 
Common environmental variables → user home 

61.Write a command to display all the environmental variables in the system
To list all environmental variable we have to use the commmand “ printenv”

62.Export a Myvar shell variable using export command.

63.Write a command to display all the files ending with .txt
64.Write about the file globbing.
File globbing is way to represent multiple filenames by using special characters called wildcards 
  → * 
  → ?    
  → /

65.Interpret the command 'echo *'.
The shell inteprets Echo *  and returns all the files in the current directory 
Echo is similar to cat which just prints the content of the folder



66.Exhibit the command 'ls [a-z]*.txt'.

67.Write a command to display the file which has alphabets in octal order.
Od is a command which converts alphabets into octal values 

68.Write a command to display all removed duplicate columns in a file.

69.Write the usage of a find command.
Find command searches for all the files and folders inside the current directory 

70.Write the utility usage of date.
Date command can be used to print the current date or format or assigh date to any program 

71.Compress the file a.txt using the gzip command.
Steps 
→ go to Desktop 
→ create a file using touch a.txt
→ use “ gzip a.txt “ command 
→ a.txt is now a zip file 


72.Write a command to unzip the file using gunzip.
Gunzip a.txt will unzip a.txt

73.Explain briefly about catzip command.
zip cat or zcat uncompresses the compressed files and writes down the uncompressed data 

74.Write about bzip,bunzip,bzcat commands.
Bzip → similar to gzip bzip command is used to compress  files into one single file 
Bunzip → bunzip decompresses the files compresse by bzip and detects and ignores the files not created by bzip 


75.explain the difference between bzip and gzip commands.
Bzip is a open sorce data compression algorithm it can recontruct the original data of the compressed file ,it uses less than 9 layers of compression techniques 

Gzip is similar in funtionality to bzip but it has a 10 byte header and a 8 byte footer 


76.Write about the 'w' command.
W command gives us details of who is logged in and what they are doing in the shell

77.Write about who command.
Who command shows us which user is logged in but unlike w command it doesnt give a detailed list of time number of users etc

78.Write about the id command.
Id commands print the userid or groupid 

79.Write about the Sudo command.
Sudo command is used to go to the administrator to do high level function 


80.Write about the /etc/passwd file.
/etc/passwd contains all basic information about all the users in the computer 
Each line in it represents a single user 

81.Write a command to create a user.
Useradd space newusername creates a new user 
Ex → useradd haha willcreate a new user in the system 
For this we have to use su command and go into the root directory 

82.Write a command to delete the user 'user5'
Userdel 
Userdel haha will delete the user haha 

83.change the user description using usermod command.
Usermod is the command used to change any attributes of an already created user 
Usermod “new description” oldone 

84.Write briefly about the /etc/skel command.
/etc/skel are files which are auotmatically added to into a user acccont when a new user is created 

85.Write a command to change the shell of a prescribed user.
Chsh → change shell is a command used to change the shell of the logged in user 

86.Write a command to change your shell to the Korn shell.
Type chsh 
Enter your passwrord 
Type the new shell as korn shel
87.Write a command passwd command
Passwd command is used to change the password of the linuk user 

88.what is the use of /etc/passwd file.
/etc/passwd contains user information and password and other user group and others related information required durin login 

89.create a user using a command useradd with OpenSSL function
Go to root directory 
Useradd openssl passwd “” username 
90.
Write briefly about the /etc/login.defs
 /etc/login.defs provides password ,userid groupid  related configuration 


__________________________________________
SECTION 2


1)Setup a  cron job which creates a new text file every 20 seconds.
Note :  a) The Text File Name should be the system TIME while executing.
b)The Text File Content should be the system DATE.

Command to set a cronjob everys 20 seconds is 

               → * * * * *  sleep 20;
Command to set the text file the system time 
          → Touch  “$time”.txt >> folder
Command to set the content of the file to be system date 
  


Create a file in directory and do nano to go inside the file
Go inside 


2)
Setup a python HTTP Server which will run in the background.
Note : a) Python Server should run on port 80
          b) All the server access logs should be captured in a log.txt file
          c) Demonstrate how to terminate the above background process


→ Python -m SimpleHTTPServer portnumber  this commad to create a                       port 
→ pushd  /var/log; python -m SimpleHTTPServer 80; popd 
→ use bg command to see whats running in the background
→ use command kill %num to terminate the backgorund process


                    
    3)Explain the difference between file soft links and hard links by creating one.
Demonstrate with an example file.
   →   Links are pointer to a file or directory
  → hard links are reffered to the source 
  → hard links have the content as well
  →  soft links contain the path of the orginal file and not the content 
→ hard links cannot link to a directory but soft links can be linked to a directory 
  Ln -s file1 file2    →  soft links 
  Ln -l file1 file 2      → hard link




    4)Explain how binary system is being used with chmod command.

Chmod is a commad used to change permission in linux 
Binary numbers 1 and 0 are used as on and off to give or remove a permission 
111 will give read write and execute 
100 will only give read permission 
111 110 100 will give read write execute permission to user read and write permission to group and read permission to others 



   5)    What is a Zombie Process. Demonstrate usage of htop, finding zombie
      Zombie processes are processs which keep running without stopping 
        Htop lost all such processes and using the pid we can kill the process 

